# Supplementary data and scripts for _Coral reef potential connectivity in the southwest Indian Ocean_
_Noam S Vogt-Vincent, April J Burt, Rosa M van der Ven, Helen Johnson_

This repository contains all (full-size) figures from the manuscript, alternate versions for all five coral species with larval parameters described in Connolly & Baird (2010), and the full raw data (connectivity matrices) described in the paper. The scripts used to generate these figures are also stored here. Note that we use the following acronyms for coral species: PD (_Platygyra daedalea_), GR (_Goniastrea retiformis_), AV (_Acropora valida_), AG (_Acropora gemmifera_), and AM (_Acropora millepora_). Large files can be found in the Zenodo repository, [here](). The interactive Sea the Connectivity web app can be found [here](https://nvogtvincent.co.uk/coral).

## Repository overview
### Figures
**Matrices**: Contains the explicit connectivity (Fig. 2), explicit connectivity variability (Fig. S3), and implicit connectivity (Fig. 3) matrices. Note that the colour scale for implicit connectivity is different for GR. Generated by *CX_CMIC_Matrices.py* in the *Scripts* directory.

**Metrics**: Contains a variety of connectivity metrics (out-entropy, in-entropy, out-strength, in-strength, out-consistency, in-consistency, and betweeness centrality) for close-up views, and the entire domain. Note that only out-entropy is discussed in the manuscript (Fig. S4). The other metrics are either described in Vogt-Vincent et al. _High-frequency variability dominates potential connectivity between remote coral reefs_ (2023), or in Sea the Connectivity (see below). Generated by *Metrics.py* in the *Scripts* directory.

**Partitioning**: Contains the PCA plot for the meta-clusters (Fig. 4), true Euclidean distance in PCA space (Fig. S5), inertia (Fig. S1), meta-clusters in geographic space (Fig. 5), individual principal components plotted geographically (Figs. S9-11) and discrete partitioning using K-Means with *k =* 3, 5, and 8 clusters (Figs. S6-7). Generated by *Network_partitioning.py* in the *Scripts* directory.

### Matrices - note that these data are large, and can be found in the associated Zenodo repository (see top)
*Postprocessed subdirectory contains the following:*

**_PROCESSED CONNECTIVITY MATRICES_**: Raw data for Figs. 2-3 and S3. If you are a marine spatial planner or conservationist in the SWIO, this is probably what you want! Feel free to contact me if you need help opening/using these data.

**Metrics/gridded metrics:** Various derived metrics averaged over time, for different cells and plotted geographically.

*Main directory contains the following:*

**Drift time**: Not used in this study, but contains the drift time of larvae between all pairs of reef groups, in 0.5 day bins.

**Flux (source cell)**: Connectivity matrices containing the climatological flux of larvae between all pairs of reef cells.

**Flux (source group)**: Connectivity matrices containing the flux of larvae between all pairs of reef groups, as a function of spawning day.

**Retention strength**: Matrices containing the proportion of larvae that were retained at the source reef cell, as a function of spawning day.

**Source strength:** Matrices containing the proportion of larvae that settle anywhere from a reef cell, as a function of spawning day.

**Sink strength:**: Matrices containing the proportion/ratio of larvae that settle at a reef cell, as a function of spawning day.

**Source entropy:** Matrices containing the entropy associated with larval destinations for larvae from a reef cell, as a function of spawning day (see Fig. S4, or contact the author)

**Source entropy:** Matrices containing the entropy associated with larval sources for larvae for a reef cell, as a function of spawning day.

### Scripts
See *Figures*

### Grid data
Model grid used for the WINDS hydrodynamic simulations and larval dispersal simulations. Contains the listing of the 180 reef groups (from the 8088 reef cells), and reef group names.

### Reference
Reference files used by the larval dispersal simulations.

### Scripts
See above

### Sim
Simulation scripts used for larval dispersal simulations (similar to those used in Vogt-Vincent _et al._ (2023)).

### Sea the Connectivity
Files for the web app (developed with Otis Brunner and Julia Janicki).






